Medium Level: 
    Blue gem hidden in a cabin, but you have to find the key in the forest first. You get the hint by pulling a lever hidden behind the cabin. The hint says ‘where is the blue gem? It lies within. But how get in? search in the forest.’
Red gem hidden inside a bench by the water (bridge included), you find out where the gem is by lifting the bench up (‘though I may not be clear, the red gem is not at all far from here!’)
Yellow gem hidden in a statue. There are two statues at separate locations, so the hint is hidden in one statue. The hint says ‘hidden in marble is a yellow marvel’. When you find a hidden compartment of the statue, you don’t see a gem, because it’s in the other statue! It’s up to you to find the other statue and to extract the gem from under it.
Green gem hidden under a rock. The hint is on the rock itself, it says ‘the green gem is nearby, keep looking, keep trying.’ If someone finds this gem and the red gem at first, they will believe every gem is hidden where the hint is.
Orange gem hidden in a treehouse. A sign points you to climb up a tree, where you find a hint, that says ‘the orange gem is across these trees, go across as you please’. You have to do monkey bars and jumping on tree branches to reach the treehouse, and inside you find the gem.
Once you find all the gems, a paper just falls from the sky and drops into your hands. It says ‘congratulations! You have found all of the gems. No greater treasure is found east or west, search all of your might for a TREASURE CHEST! Think: this is somewhere you have been before. When you find where you think it is, explore every inch.” The treasure is hidden under the cabin, you find it by climbing up an air vent, twisting and turning like the Outlaws of Ravenhurst until you drop in a spot with treasure. You open it up (you have to get into your backpack and use the key) and that’s the end of the medium leve

HARD: 
    There is an immediate hint where you begin outside. It says “there is a shovel in the tool shed, you will have to find it yourself. When you find it, use it to dig up 5 gems hidden in separate locations.”
Red gem buried at the starting location of the game! You have to jump on a rock to get this hint. It says ‘beginners’
Blue gem buried UNDERWATER. A hint lies in a little box by the river (that body of water) that says “solid water”
Green gem buried under a tree. A hint is on top of the tree (slightly visible) that says “leaves grow over and dirt grows under”
Orange gem buried under the dirt pathway. The hint says "move forward!"
Yellow gem buried under the cabin! If you examine the back of the house you will find in the window a hint. It says “go inside”. If you go inside the cabin, move some boxes around, there is a red button on the low end of the wall that you press, and it activates a floorboard that opens up and leads underground. There, you find the yellow gem. It’s a sort of trick, because it doesn't require your shovel!
When you have found all of the gems, a paper falls from the sky, that says: “Congratulations! You have located all of the gems. Would you like to find the most beautiful buried treasure in the world? Return to the cabin, and to the secret entrance you found there.” When you return to the secret entrance there is absolutely nothing there, except for a picture on the wall. If you take it down, you will find an outlaws of ravenhurst passageway and try to get through it, it’s dark and you can get lost and find yourself back where you started or hopelessly lost. If you land in “no man’s land” the game starts over, because you fall in a shaft that you can’t escape from. To stay focused, use your little flashlight that’s in your backpack the whole game. It’s not great but you can make guesses about where you’re going with it. Once you crawl enough, you find the treasure in an underground sort of cavern. You slide down, so the only way out is to find some means to get up. There are boxes sprawled everywhere. Pile 6 or so up and you will be able to dig your way out (upwards) with the shovel. When you make it out you’re in the middle of the map. Once you’ve done this, you win.
